---
title: Dilution Spreading Mixing 
date: 2018-1-23 21:36:21
categories: Research
tags:
    - dilution
    - spreading
    - dispersion
---
##### Spreading Mixing Dilution  

The concepts of mixing of two species and of dilution of one species should be distinguished from that of spreading. 关于几个概念的定义

<!-- more -->
Spreading, which has been the subject of macro-dispersion studies, is a macro-scale phenomenon, which describes the spatial extent of the concentration field, primarily controlled by aquifer heterogeneities [[*Gelhar and Axness*, 1983](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2006WR005658/full#wrcr11156-bib-0016); [*Neuman et al.*, 1987](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2006WR005658/full#wrcr11156-bib-0030); [*Dagan*, 1988](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2006WR005658/full#wrcr11156-bib-0007)].

Dilution and mixing process is ultimately controlled by local dispersive transport. [[*Kitanidis*, 1994](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2006WR005658/full#wrcr11156-bib-0025)]presented a “dilution index”, which quantitatively distinguishes between spreading and dilution [[*Kapoor and Kitanidis*, 1996](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2006WR005658/full#wrcr11156-bib-0020), [1998](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2006WR005658/full#wrcr11156-bib-0021)]. 

##### dispersion and spreading

Although the macro-dispersion coefficients describe spreading of solute plumes, it is well known that they overestimate mixing. There have been many studies showing that the so-called effective dispersion theory that takes into account finite-size solute plumes more accurately models mixing.

##### mixing and spreading 
**Form Thesis [Mixing and reactions in porous media] by P. Anna**
**mixing**

mixing  is the ensemble of mechanisms that change the spatial distribution of an heterogeneous system, to make it more homogeneous. As discussed by, Ottino[1989] and Kitanidis[1994], two or more given substances, originally segregated into different volumes of space, tend to occupy the same volume due to mixing processes. As stated by Villermaux and Duplat[2003], a mixture is a transient state between the initial segregation of the constituents and their ultimate homegeneity. This concept is well represented by the following image, where two initially segregated drops of different ink are mixed. 


**Mixing in porous media**

This interaction between heteroge- neous advection and diffusion is typically lumped in a dispersion coefficient to describe the effective mixing processes of the solute (e.g. Taylor [1953]; Aris [1956]; Gramling et al. [2002]). 

**Difference between spreading and mixing**
Spreading and mixing are two concepts that need to be differentiated in porous media, as illustrated in Figure 1.4. Spreading has received a lot of attention, however it does not predict well the degree of mixing of observed solutes. As pointed out by Kitanidis [1994], mixing and spreading for transport in homogeneous media can both be characterized in terms of diffusion and dispersion coefficients. In heterogeneous media this is no longer true. Medium heterogeneities lead to a distortion of the solute plume that, for times smaller than the trans- port time over a typical heterogeneity scale, increase the solute spreading but not its degree of mixing. Thus, in general these coupled processes of spreading and mixing need to be separated (e.g. as proposed by Tartakovsky et al. [2008a]). To quantify the coupling between those two mechanisms, Le Borgne et al. [2011a] introduce and quantify the local mixing scale ǫ, defined as the length for which the scalar distribution is locally uniform. The anomalous
evolutions of the dispersion scale σ and the mixing scale ǫ result to be complementary, σǫ ∼ t relating anomalous global dispersion to the dynamics of local mixing.
PS: 18.11.8 当时看部分文献的理解，现在可能有点不同了。一个涉足了几个月的研究方向